---
title: "Lab 0"
bookHidden: false
marp: true
---

# Welcome to CS0.101 Lab 0



---
## Whats the plan for Lab 0?

- Help you setup the coding environment.
- Downloading problems and learn basic tools required for coding.
- Submiting solutions and seeing the score.
- Solve a hello world problem.


---
## 1. Basic Setup
---
### 1.1 Reseting Password for AutoLab: 
Open a browser and go to https://pingala.iiit.ac.in (which is the web interface for autolab). Reset your password using forgot password. Username is IIIT email id.


---
### 1.2 Open  pingala shell: 

Open Terminal in lab machines and run the command
```bash
ssh <your_iiit_username>@pingala.iiit.ac.in
```
Enter your IIIT CAS password to open the _pingala shell_. _pingala shell_ a standard ubuntu linux shell which has all the programs required for this course.

---
### 1.3 Setup AutoLab in shell: 
Run the following command for setting up autolab in _pingala shell_
```bash
autolab setup
```
Copy the 6 character access code and paste it at https://pingala.iiit.ac.in/activate

---
## 2. Download Problems/Basic Tools for Coding

---
### 2.1 Download Problems
Run the bellow command to list the courses
```bash
autolab courses
```
Run the bellow command to list the assesments under the courses
```bash
autolab asmt <course_id>
```
<course_id> is "cs0-101-m24" for this course (as shown by previous command).
Run the bellow command to download the handin for Lab 0
```bash
autolab download <course_id>:<asmt_id>
```
<asmt_id> is "lab0" for Lab 0 (as shown by previous command).

---
### 2.2 Navigate folders and edit code in pingala shell

- use `ls` command to list folders and files in current directory
- use `cd` to change the directory
- use `nano <file_name>` to edit `<file_name>` as a text file.
  
---
### 2.3 Test your solutions locally


---
## 3. Submitting Solutions/Seeing Score 

---
### 3.1 Submit solutions

---
### 3.2 See your score

---
## 4. Solve Lab 0
---


---